Day 1 - Learned how to query active network connections by using the command: ifconfig. Basic knowledge about 
network interfaace card (NIC), media access control (MAC) (Hwaddr), and internet protocol (IP). For IP, researched about Bcast or
broadcast address which sends information to all IP address on the subnet (haven't learned it yet). Netmask or network mask, 
which determines what part of the IP add is connected to the local network. Show Network Statistics with netstat (old way to show network statistics)
or use ss command for the modern and more readable format. Can use options like (-u -t -l -a). Use -u for UDP connections which means
User Datagram Protocol, -t for Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) connections, -l for listening connections, -a for showing all sockets. 
Used the command: iwconfig, to check wireless network devices. Assigned or SPOOF a new IP Address using sudo ifconfig <network> <newip>
for MAC Address, sudo ifconfig eth0 down, sudo ifconfig eth0 hw ether <add>, sudo ifconfig eth0 up. Assigning new IP address from DHCP server using
sudo dhclient eth0 (had problems running this command). Manipulate DNS using dig <dns-server> <type> which I learned to use mx - mailserver, ns - nameserver
change DNS server using the command mousepad. sudo mousepad /etc/resolv.conf, can do overwriting with echo command. Mapping your own IP addr
with mousepad again using: sudo mousepad /etc/hosts. -EOD 

Day 2 - Review about Advanced Packaging Tool (apt) which is used to download and install, update, amd upgrade new software packages with it. Using the
sudo apt search <keyword>, you can check whether a package is available. To search for uncomplicated firewall (ufw), which is a powerful Linux firewall to protect
your network, use the command: sudo apt search ufw. To install a software in your OS's defaulr repo in the terminal, use sudo apt install <packagename>. Then enter 
the word Y to proceed install. When we want to remove a software simply use sudo apt remove <packagename>. Once again enter Y to confirm uninstallation. The remove
command doesn't remove the configuration files, which means you can reinstall the same package and it will have the same configuration as before. If you want to remove 
the package with the configuration files use the command sudo apt purge <package>. Enter Y to continue purging the software package with the configuration. Software repositories
will periodically update with new software or versions and it will not automatically update. Updating is different from Upgrading, updating means simply to UPDATE the list of packages
available for download from the repo meanwhile upgrading UPGRADES the package to the latest version in the repo. Use the command sudo apt update to update your individual system to search
for available updates available. To upgrade existing packages on your system enter the command: sudo apt upgrade. This will upgrade every package on your system APT knows about,
which means only those stored in the repository. - Finished @page 43

Day 3 - null 

Day 4 - Continued the Adding and Removing Software lesson, repositories is the servers that hold the software for a particular destribution of linux. Whick kali linux has 
a large amoynt of security and hacking software. If you want to add a backup repository that your system can search through in case it doesn't find it a specific software in the Kali repository.
The repos your system will search for software are stored in the sources.list file, with this you can alter this file and define which repos you want to download software. The sources.list file 
is located at /etc/apt/sources.list and open it with any text editor in which we can use themousepad text editor. Again we'll be using the command sudo mousepad /etc/apt/sources.list. Newer Kali versions 
no longer include GUI-based software installation. We can install one using the apt command, two of the most popular gui based installation tools are Synaptic and Gdebi. I'll be using the Synaptic tool. 
Use the command sudo apt install synaptic. Once installed, you can start it in the Kali menu by going to Settings > Synaptic Package Manager. Sometimes the software you want isn't available, so maybe you can find it on github. 
For example, you want to install a tool but it isn't in the Kali repository, you can use githhub to install it. If you found your tool at github, you can clone it to your system with the command git clone <githuburl>. 
then enter ls -l to check of you've successfully downloaded the tool. 

Day 5 - Did a crash course on python network automation, did go through the fundamental basics such as printing, variables, printing and formatting, built in methods, lists, dictionaries, working with files, functions, conditional and
loops, and finished off with interacting with network devices. Needed more time to learn and setup GNS3 so I can apply network automation scripts. Will be doing that in the next few days. 

Day 6 - Setup the Cisco Packet Tracer rather than using GNS3 for a more light-weight nature, only did the setup first, was busy doing school works, next goal is to continue to learn the CCNA 200-301 course. 

Day 7 - Deployed a virtual cisco lab and deploying a multilayer switch then connecting it with 2 different laptops using ethernet cables (virtual) with a copper straight through cable, then configured the ipv4 
to 192.168.1.1 (Laptop 1) then automatically set subnet mask to 255.255.255.0. Also changed the Mac address of the Laptops wish 0001.1111.1111. For Laptop 2 I changed the ipv4 to 192.168.1.2 then the subnet mast is the same.
For both Laptops, I changed the default gateway to 192.168.1.254 then changed the DNS Server to 8.8.8.8 (google's dns). For the switch, I inserted a AC-POWER-SUPPLY at the back for it to turn on. I executed
a few commands like pinging each laptop with it's IP the command ping (ip) then it should send a feedback. Also some few commands like ipconfig, ipconfig /all to see the mac address of the device. 

Day 8 - Built a web server network in packet tracer, then connecting it to the switch with a copper straight through cable so it can connect with the devices, I changed the IP, MAC, Default Gateway, and the DNS so I can easily ping the Server. 
turned on and off the http and https to test if the web server will still work after turning it off, then modified the default web server with the helloworld.html file. I opened the web server in a device by pasting the IPv4 Address in the
web browser of the device. The commands used were the same (ipconfig /all) and ping (ip). 

Day 9 - n

Day 10 - Learned that there is user permissions like a regular user and a root user, you are in user mode by default but you are limited to use commands unlike switching to privileged mode using the command (en) short for enable. 
when you enter en, your hostname will change from S1> to S1#, then if you want to switch to global configuration mode, type the command conf t short for configure terminal. you can use the key ? question mark to list the options of a certain command
for example, you are in user mode, simply type ? then enter to scroll through more commands available on that mode. Another example to the ? key, is if you want to type something and you are not sure what are the available options are. For example is I'll
use the command c? then it will show me available command that I can use. It's more like a suggestion option. Another simple command is show version, it will just show the version of the switch. Also when you want to exit from privileged mode, you can enter the
command disa short for disable and for global configuration you can type exit or ctrl z. Also you can change your hostname by typing hostname <name>. One command that shows you the mac address of device connected to the switch is show mac address-table. 
If you use the ? key after a command, and after the options it ends with <cr> which means carriage return, it means that you can use the command that you have typed. 

